# Tanzanian-Water-Pumps-Clustering-and-Classification
For this group project, I performed cluster analysis and classification using Python to predict one of three classes for water pumps; functional, functional but needs repair, and non-functions. I used clustering to find hidden data structures to exploit for fitting individual classification techniques with better results than using the entire dataset. Unfortunately, k-means clustering, DBSCAN, hierarchical clustering, nor OPTICS produced well-defined clusters. The entire dataset was therefore used for fitting classification algorithms. The two classification techniques I was responsible for were k-nearest neighbors and stacked generalization ensemble. For the latter, I combined the best models each group member developed. All the models had a hard time predicting the functional but need repair class. My best model was only able to achieve an accuracy of 76%.

The original dataset came from DrivenData as part of a competition: https://www.drivendata.org/competitions/7/pump-it-up-data-mining-the-water-table/ 
I uploaded a clean/reduced version used for the analysis. The cleaning process was through the lens of using features that could be used in other countries and be general enough to classify water pumps anywhere in the world. We did not participate in the competition, otherwise, the cleaning process would not have been generalized. 

The Python libraries used include matplotlib (3.3.4), NumPy (1.20.1), pandas (1.2.3), scikit-learn (0.24.1), and warnings
